Welcome back.
In this video I'll code up a quick solution to the histogram exercise.
I'll also tackle the bonus as part of getting the range in but working well and briefly about a new
D-3 access method and do some refactoring.
So let's jump into it to begin.
Let me just try to get a basic histogram showing up on the page.
The HVM L.A.'s S files I'm starting with are pretty simple but they've got everything I need so I'll
hop into the app.
Yes by now you can probably guess what I'll do first set variables for the SPG within height as well
as some values for the SVGA padding and the bar padding.
Also similar to the scatterplot video.
I don't want to consider any data in my region data array where the value for median age is no.
So I'll filter my original dataset so that I only keep data on regions that have a record of median
age.
Moving on let's create some scales.
I'll start with the scale for my domain.
I want the extreme values for median age.
So once again I'll use D-3 dot extent then I'll use range round and go from the padding to the width
minus the padding.
I can't set the Y scale without knowing how high my bins will be.
So first I'll need to use the histogram generator to create my bins just like in the example we work
earlier in the section.
I'll set the domain of my histogram equal to the domain of my scale and set thresholds based on the
default text for my scale.
I also use the value method on the generator to specify that I want a histogram of median age values.
Next I can define a bin's variable and set it equal to the value I get when I pass my age data into
the histogram generator.
Let's hop into the console quickly and take a look at this variable.
Great.
It looks like the histogram generator worked as expected.
Now that I know how many data points are in each bin I can create my y scale for the domain.
I'll go from zero to the largest bin height and for the range I'll go from the height minus the padding
to the padding.
OK let's quickly add the rectangles.
No secrets here.
I'll just use the same pattern we've seen many times before.
First let me select the SPG set it's what height and store the selection in a variable.
Then I'll select all recked elements inside the SVGA join with my bin data enter append rectangles and
style them.
My ex attribute is determined by the x 0 property for each bin the Y attribute is determined by the
length of the bed the height and width are a bit more complicated but these are the same expressions
we've seen before.
Lastly I'll make all of these rectangles blue.
Oh I also need to set my axes and labels.
We've done this several times already so I'll just paste in the code.
Feel free to post the video if you want to take a closer look or review the solution to the previous
exercise.
The only thing I'll do slightly differently is add a class of x axis to my x axis and a class of y axis
to my y axis.
This will make my axes easier to select with D-3 when I need to update them as part of the bonus.
Now all saving refresh the page there is our histogram next.
Let's tackle the above.
I'd like to add a range input to the page so that I can specify how many bins I want for the histogram.
First I'll update my email to include a range but the fewest number of bins I can have is one and the
steps size should also be one.
I'll also set the max to 50 but I'll set the value property in the javascript while I'm here.
I'll also add a tag with a class of bin count.
This is how all this play to the user the current number of bins.
Before I forget I also styled these new elements in the stylesheet OK let's hop back into the javascript
and select the input element.
The current value for the input should just be the number of things that the histogram generator created.
Now that I've set up my input let's add an event listener for input events inside of the callback first
stored the input value in a variable called Bin count.
Then I'll update the histogram generator.
I'll put bin count into the text method to change the array that's being used to set the thresholds.
This means I'll need to update the bin's variable and the y scale's domain too.
Since my bins are changing after that I'll select my Y-axis and pass it my updated scale.
Next let's update the rectangles here again will see the general update pattern come into play.
First I'll store the update selection in a variable then I'll remove anything in the exit selection.
After that I'll append a rectangle for every entry note in the enter selection and don't merge with
the update selection to set styles for every rectangle on the page
then update the text in the P-TECH great.
Let's try this out.
This looks pretty good though it would be nice if the X-axis adjusted to match the bar widths to make
this happen.
I can select the x axis inside of the callback then call a new Access bottom where I use the text method
on the axis and passing count like with the text method on a scale.
This will set the text on the axis based on the count I-PASS and sweet.
Now the x axis is updating to.
Note that the x axis labels get a little cramped when the number of bins is large.
One way to fix that is to select all text elements inside of the x axis and update their styles for
example to make them a bit more legible.
I can nudge them a little in the x and y direction.
Rotate them and update their text anchor property.
If we save and refresh we see things now look a little better when there are a large number of bins.
One last thing the apple swine but the code could use a little refactoring.
I've got a fair amount of duplication for the styling of the rectangles and calling the axes.
If this duplication bothers you one thing we can do is refactor these common tasks into one function.
For example I could write a function called update rechts which is basically responsible for updating
the graph this function will take as an argument.
The number of rectangles you want to draw inside of this function.
I'll create my X scale my histogram generator my bins and my wife scale.
Then I'll update the x and y axes.
Use the general update pattern to update the rectangles and update the text in the DAG
with this helper of a callback to my method is much simpler.
All I do is call this helper in passing the event target value as a number.
I can also use this function to initially set up the Grath the first time I generate the histogram.
I get 16 bins.
So let me store this number in a variable I can then use this variable when I set up my input and again
to call my helper function.
This saves me from having to initially call my X or Y axes or declare my scale's Mr. Bamm generator
or Benza variable outside of this helper.
When I save and refresh everything works as before but this code has much less duplication.
I hope this video helps when you're ready.
Let's start learning about pie charts.
I'll see you in the next video.